We've talked about connections and replacing containers
before in this course.
Earlier in this course, you learned about SIGTERM and
various ways that Docker asks your container
to shut down.
I want to reiterate that now and go over some more details
about how that's going to be important in production.
First up, as a reminder, Docker will normally give you a
SIGTERM as a way to communicate, hey, you should start
shutting down, and that I'm going to give you a certain
amount of time to do that.
So, out-of-the-box, that's SIGTERM.
You can see an example of that in the sample directory
I show here, and you used that before actually in an
assignment earlier in the course.
A reminder of what that code really does.
It helps Docker not kill your process, but
it doesn't mean that you're getting true connection
migrations from your current container to a new one when
we're talking about production. In production, we're
talking about rolling updates, or blue-green deployments,
where there's different styles.
Basically, that's what these terms are is different styles
of changing out one working container that's in
production, receiving work and doing work for
a new one that's presumably got some better code,
or you know, whatever reason you have for replacing a
container. And, that you want to make
sure that none of those connections are terminated in
a bad way. They're not killed.
They're not turned off suddenly.
They're given proper time to shut down and all that kind of
stuff. Of course, this change is depending
on the protocols you're dealing with.
But, a lot of this we have concern around is
through web connections, or client connections, incoming
to our container. Basically, customers that we can't
control, necessarily, that they are there all the time.
They always need to have access to this service.
So, we need to basically, somehow, tell those connections
that we're stopping, and they need to go find another
container to use.
Quite frankly, we could spend an hour, or more, talking
just about this process.
But, I want to give you some quick, actionable stuff
you can take and put into your Node.js apps to help them.
The first one up is Terminus.
It's a boilerplate package that you can add into your
apps from GoDaddy.
They created this open source little app here.
It basically gives you the default, out-of-the-box,
minimum stuff you need to make sure that when Docker asks
you to shut down, that your container does shut down
properly. Of course, you're going to have to put in your
own application logic for what your application, itself,
needs to do before shutting down.
Maybe it needs to tell connections to terminate.
Maybe it needs to close database connections.
Stuff like that.
But, it gives you that boilerplate of healthchecks and
shutdown. Those are the two things that every container
really needs to do is your Node apps, whether
it's web, or worker processes in the background,
or whatever, it needs to be able to shut down properly.
So, have that proper shut down logic for SIGTERM.
Then it needs to have some sort of way of communicating
healthcheck, either to Docker, or Swarm, or
Kubernetes, or whatever else you're using.
I've given you a bunch of resources
in this lecture to go read.
They're important because some of them are example repos on
how other people have solved the problem.
Some of them are great guides, from other blogs,
on how you manage shutdown and replacement of containers,
and stuff that is specific to Node.js.
So, I recommend that you read them.
Some of those are great resources that help me understand
the problem at a deeper level as well.
When we get into the nitty gritty of regardless
of what tool you're using, how you replace a container
that's running, it comes down to a few, key steps.
The first step is Docker will communicate to
your container that it needs to shut down and then it
waits. Now, Docker can't see really what's going on in your
container, nor can Kubernetes, or Swarm, or any other tool.
It's not going to understand one container's app from
another. But, it does wait for
you to properly exit a certain amount of time.
Out-of-the-box, Docker and Swarm default to 10 seconds and
Kubernetes defaults to 30 seconds.
That's the time it gives you to shut down all the
connections and processes ,and clean up whatever you need
to for proper container healthy shutdown.
You can extend both of those.
You can change both of those numbers on either side with
YAML, depending on what tool you're using.
It's pretty easy just to Google that and find the answer.
Orchestrators have subtle, but important, differences
in the order and way that they stop new connections
from coming to your container, how they move those
connections to a new container, and then not
only on how long they wait for your shutdown, but how they
let your container shut down.
One of those important distinctions is around load
balancing, also known as ingress when you're talking about
orchestration. Those connections coming in from your
clients, one of the first things that needs to happen
before your app and your container can stop, is that those
load balancers need to start moving new connections,
not existing ones, but new ones that are incoming,
to a new container so that you can start cleaning
up work and resolving all the existing connections, right.
You've got to finish the work you've started so that you
can shut down cleanly.
With Swarm and Kubernetes, they are different.
Swarm will actually talk directly to the load balancer for
you before it even starts the shutdown, and tell the load
balancer to start sending new connections elsewhere,
assuming that you have another container or replica
running.
Kubernetes will expect your container to have a readiness
check that starts to fail so that it knows to signal
the load balancer to send connections elsewhere.
These are more about the orchestrator, really nothing to do
with Node.js. So, you're going to want to invest some time
learning those tools and how they treat container
replacement.
My tip here is that you definitely want to give
your shutdown time, that's the time that
your orchestrator, or Docker, or whatever tool you're
using, waits for the container to finish shutting down.
You're going to want to give that timer enough time for
your long polling to stop.
So, if you're using HTTP, and you're familiar with long
polling, you might tell your clients to check back every so
often. Maybe every minute for data.
And that's depending on your app, of course, of how you've
built it. You're going to definitely...one of those tips
there is to make sure that that wait is longer
than that long polling, so that you can at least tell the
clients, hey, I'm terminating my connections.
I'm ending my connections. You need to go somewhere else.
In order to do this, there is a subtle, but
necessary, step.
That is with HTTP specifically, that
you need to start metering, or managing, connections
one by one. By default in Node, it doesn't
count connections. It doesn't track connections.
So, you can't control, or manage, each one individually.
Once you want to replace a container, you need to be
able to tell those connections a specific packet, a thin
packet, in HTTP that says, I'm done with connections.
Please re-establish a brand new connection, which the load
balancer will send somewhere else.
Your container needs to be able to tell them that.
As of right now, the only tool
that I know of that you can just plug in, as a module into
a Node app, is Stoppable.
So, I've given you resources here on Stoppable, which
I know others have used, and it seems like a pretty legit
piece of software. I have used it before.
What it will do is it tracks connections.
Then once you give it the signal to shut down in a
container, or in any Linux app, right.
It's a regular Linux shutdown.
It will start to tell existing connections,
hey, you need to restart your connection even though I know
you already have a connection with me.
Restart a new one, and that way the load bouncer would send
them somewhere else. That's a thin packet.
So, spend some time learning about that if you're not
familiar, and understanding how existing connections,
and new connections, work in an HTTP app.
Then you can put these modules into your Node apps
and hopefully solve this problem easier than just writing
it from scratch.